🔹 1. Introduction

React.js is a widely used JavaScript library for building interactive user interfaces, while TensorFlow.js is a machine learning library that allows models to run directly in the browser. By integrating both, we can create intelligent web applications capable of performing real-time object detection.

🔹 2. Objective

The objective of this practical is to develop a React.js application that uses TensorFlow.js and the COCO-SSD model to perform real-time object detection on images.

🔹 3. Technologies Used
React.js
TensorFlow.js
COCO-SSD pre-trained model
JavaScript, HTML, CSS

🔹 4. Working Principle
The React application provides an interface to upload an image.
TensorFlow.js loads the COCO-SSD model in the browser.
The uploaded image is passed to the model.
The model analyzes the image and detects objects.
The detected objects are displayed with labels and confidence scores.

🔹 5. About COCO-SSD Model 
COCO-SSD stands for Common Objects in Context – Single Shot Detector.
🔸 Key Concepts:
COCO Dataset:
A large dataset containing images of everyday objects like person, car, dog, bottle, etc. (around 80 classes).
SSD (Single Shot Detector):
A deep learning algorithm that detects objects in a single pass (one shot) through the neural network, making it fast and efficient.
🔸 How COCO-SSD Works:
The input image is passed into a convolutional neural network.
The network extracts important features (edges, shapes, patterns).
SSD divides the image into a grid and predicts:
Bounding boxes 
Object classes 
Confidence scores (%)
Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) is applied to remove duplicate detections.
Final results are returned with object name and accuracy.

🔹 6. Implementation Steps
Create React app using create-react-app.
Install TensorFlow.js and COCO-SSD model.
Load the model asynchronously in React.
Accept image input from user.
Pass image to model for detection.
Draw bounding boxes using canvas.

🔹 7. Features
Real-time object detection 
Browser-based execution (no backend)
Fast prediction using SSD algorithm
Detects multiple objects in one image

🔹 8. Advantages
High speed due to single-shot detection
Easy to use pre-trained model
Works directly in web browser
No need for GPU server

🔹 9. Limitations
Limited to predefined object classes (COCO dataset)
Accuracy depends on image quality
Performance depends on system capability

🔹 10. Conclusion
The integration of React.js with TensorFlow.js and COCO-SSD enables the development of efficient real-time object detection systems. The SSD algorithm ensures fast detection, while the COCO dataset provides a wide range of recognizable objects, making the application practical and powerful.




how to run:
npx create-react-app
cd
npm install @tensorflow/tfjs @tensorflow-models/coco-ssd
npm install web-vitals
npm start
